readme.md, before:

# GitHub Actions Kubernetes

A collection of Kubernetes related GitHub actions.

## Actions

### Setup DigitalOcean

Setup Digital-Ocean CLI and configure Kubernetes.

#### Example

```yaml
  - uses: aboutbits/github-actions-kubernetes/do-setup-kubectl@v2
    with:
      digital-ocean-token: ${{ secrets.DIGITALOCEAN_TOKEN }}
      cluster-name: ${{ env.CLUSTER_NAME }}
```

#### Inputs

The following inputs can be used as `step.with` keys:

| Name                  | Required/Default | Description                            |
|-----------------------|------------------|----------------------------------------|
| `digital-ocean-token` | required         | DigitalOcean access token              |
| `cluster-name`        | required         | Kubernetes cluster name                |
| `helm-version`        | `3.17.1`         | The version of Helm to install and use |


### Deploy to Kubernetes using kubectl

Deploy application to a Kubernetes Cluster. Requires Kubernetes to be configured first.

#### Example

```yaml
  - uses: aboutbits/github-actions-kubernetes/kubectl-deploy@v2
    with:
      deployment-file: 'infrastructure/kubernetes.prod.yml'
      namespace-name: ${{ env.NAMESPACE_NAME }}
      deployment-name: ${{ env.DEPLOYMENT_NAME }}
```

#### Inputs

The following inputs can be used as `step.with` keys:

| Name                   | Required/Default     | Description                                |
|------------------------|----------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `deployment-file`      | required             | Deployment file for kubectl to apply       |
| `namespace-name`       | required             | Kubernetes namespace name                  |
| `deployment-name`      | required             | Kubernetes deployment name                 |
| `working-directory`    | `.`                  | The working directory                      |

### Deploy to Kubernetes using Helm

Deploy an application to a Kubernetes cluster using its Helm chart. Requires Kubernetes to be configured first.

#### Example

```yaml
  - uses: aboutbits/github-actions-kubernetes/helm-deploy@v2
    with:
      helm-chart-version: "1.0.0"
      helm-package: "my-app-chart"
      helm-username: ${{ secrets.HELM_USERNAME }}
      helm-password: ${{ secrets.HELM_PASSWORD }}
      release-name: my-app
      values-file: environments/values-test.yaml
      image-tag: "1.0.42"
      timeout: 5m
      working-directory: ./infrastructure
```

#### Inputs

The following inputs can be used as `step.with` keys:

| Name                 | Required/Default | Description                                                  |
|----------------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `helm-chart-version` | required         | The version of the Helm chart to pull                        |
| `helm-registry-url`  | required         | The URL of the Helm OCI registry                             |
| `helm-package`       | required         | The name of the Helm package to pull                         |
| `helm-username`      | required         | The username for authenticating with the Helm registry       |
| `helm-password`      | required         | The password for authenticating with the Helm registry       |
| `helm-protocol`      | `oci://`         | The protocol for pulling Helm charts (e.g., `oci://`)        |
| `release-name`       | required         | The name of the Helm release                                 |
| `values-file`        | required         | Path to the Helm values file for customization               |
| `image-tag`          | `latest`         | The tag of the container image to set                        |
| `timeout`            | `5m`             | The timeout for the Helm command                             |
| `working-directory`  | `.`              | The working directory where the action commands will operate |

## Versioning

In order to have a versioning in place and working, create lightweight tags that point to the appropriate minor release versions.

Creating a new minor release:

```bash
git tag v2
git push --tags
```

Replacing an already existing minor release:

```bash
git tag -d v2
git push origin :refs/tags/v2
git tag v2
git push --tags
```

## Information

About Bits is a company based in South Tyrol, Italy. You can find more information about us on [our website](https://aboutbits.it).

### Support

For support, please contact [info@aboutbits.it](mailto:info@aboutbits.it).

### Credits

- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

### License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see the [license file](license.md) for more information.

Commit message:

allow namespace to be specified when upgrading to make sure the chart is installed in the correct namespace

readme.md, after:

# GitHub Actions Kubernetes

A collection of Kubernetes related GitHub actions.

## Actions

### Setup DigitalOcean

Setup Digital-Ocean CLI and configure Kubernetes.

#### Example

```yaml
  - uses: aboutbits/github-actions-kubernetes/do-setup-kubectl@v2
    with:
      digital-ocean-token: ${{ secrets.DIGITALOCEAN_TOKEN }}
      cluster-name: ${{ env.CLUSTER_NAME }}
```

#### Inputs

The following inputs can be used as `step.with` keys:

| Name                  | Required/Default | Description                            |
|-----------------------|------------------|----------------------------------------|
| `digital-ocean-token` | required         | DigitalOcean access token              |
| `cluster-name`        | required         | Kubernetes cluster name                |
| `helm-version`        | `3.17.1`         | The version of Helm to install and use |


### Deploy to Kubernetes using kubectl

Deploy application to a Kubernetes Cluster. Requires Kubernetes to be configured first.

#### Example

```yaml
  - uses: aboutbits/github-actions-kubernetes/kubectl-deploy@v2
    with:
      deployment-file: 'infrastructure/kubernetes.prod.yml'
      namespace-name: ${{ env.NAMESPACE_NAME }}
      deployment-name: ${{ env.DEPLOYMENT_NAME }}
```

#### Inputs

The following inputs can be used as `step.with` keys:

| Name                   | Required/Default     | Description                                |
|------------------------|----------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `deployment-file`      | required             | Deployment file for kubectl to apply       |
| `namespace-name`       | required             | Kubernetes namespace name                  |
| `deployment-name`      | required             | Kubernetes deployment name                 |
| `working-directory`    | `.`                  | The working directory                      |

### Deploy to Kubernetes using Helm

Deploy an application to a Kubernetes cluster using its Helm chart. Requires Kubernetes to be configured first.

#### Example

```yaml
  - uses: aboutbits/github-actions-kubernetes/helm-deploy@v2
    with:
      helm-chart-version: "1.0.0"
      helm-package: "my-app-chart"
      helm-username: ${{ secrets.HELM_USERNAME }}
      helm-password: ${{ secrets.HELM_PASSWORD }}
      release-name: my-app
      values-file: environments/values-test.yaml
      image-tag: "1.0.42"
      timeout: 5m
      working-directory: ./infrastructure
```

#### Inputs

The following inputs can be used as `step.with` keys:

| Name                 | Required/Default | Description                                                      |
|----------------------|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `helm-chart-version` | required         | The version of the Helm chart to pull                            |
| `helm-registry-url`  | required         | The URL of the Helm OCI registry                                 |
| `helm-package`       | required         | The name of the Helm package to pull                             |
| `helm-username`      | required         | The username for authenticating with the Helm registry           |
| `helm-password`      | required         | The password for authenticating with the Helm registry           |
| `helm-protocol`      | `oci://`         | The protocol for pulling Helm charts (e.g., `oci://`)            |
| `release-name`       | required         | The name of the Helm release                                     |
| `namespace`          | required         | The namespace in which to deploy the Helm chart and application. |
| `values-file`        | required         | Path to the Helm values file for customization                   |
| `image-tag`          | `latest`         | The tag of the container image to set                            |
| `timeout`            | `5m`             | The timeout for the Helm command                                 |
| `working-directory`  | `.`              | The working directory where the action commands will operate     |

## Versioning

In order to have a versioning in place and working, create lightweight tags that point to the appropriate minor release versions.

Creating a new minor release:

```bash
git tag v2
git push --tags
```

Replacing an already existing minor release:

```bash
git tag -d v2
git push origin :refs/tags/v2
git tag v2
git push --tags
```

## Information

About Bits is a company based in South Tyrol, Italy. You can find more information about us on [our website](https://aboutbits.it).

### Support

For support, please contact [info@aboutbits.it](mailto:info@aboutbits.it).

### Credits

- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

### License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see the [license file](license.md) for more information.
